# Notes

These are just random design notes and ideas for the project.

## Mechanisms

I am thinking of a new way to make this work. The LLm should have no control over the game (no tools) instead the game
automatically invokes it to write prose for descriptions of things and events.

The events and the generation of things is determined by randomly picked keywords meant to guide the LLM

For example a quest can have a subject, verb, object. Such as "innkeeper" "lost" "money" or "scoundrel" "killed" "mayor" etc

An object can have a few keywords to define it.

The LLM can weave these into prose. Same with events, random chance weighted with attributes can determine success - for example a "Strength" check
of difficulty 15 can be weighted against a 2d6 roll + the strength attribute of the character.

The result can be given adjective modifiers to improve the flavor text generated by the LLM.

A name generator is also needed for people, places, items, monsters, and possibly more.

Procedural generation with the LLM can help generate things like services at shops, locations, etc.

## World gen

World gen should work with a world broken up in a hierarchy such as:

- Region: wide area with its own climate and biome
- Place: a town, village, or other landmark within a region. Also includes roads connecting them
- Room: the smallest atom. Is connected to other rooms including ones belonging to different places and regions.

The player, entities etc are all in a room.

The world gen works like this:

1. generate a bunch of regions
2. pick a random region and generate a bunch places in it
3. pick a random place and generate a bunch of rooms. Make sure random other places are picked for being connected to this one via rooms.
4. spawn the player into a random room that was generated

When visiting a place, its details and room get generated on entering.

This hopefully can provide a sense of continuity because the rooms and places would take their parents descriptions when generating them.
